docs(manifest): Improvements to `related_applications` and `prefer_related_applications` (#35906)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/manifest/prefer_related_applications/index.md

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The `prefer_related_applications` manifest member is used to provide a hint to browsers whether to prioritize native applications specified in the [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) manifest member over your web application.

Reviewer: Prioritize doesn't feel quite right. This is about installation, so  ...
```suggestion
The `prefer_related_applications` manifest member is used to provide a hint to browsers whether to prefer installing native applications specified in the [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) manifest member over your web application.
```

Author: Looks good

## Syntax

```json-nolint
/* Boolean values */
"prefer_related_applications": true
"prefer_related_applications": false
```

### Values

- `prefer_related_applications`
  - : A boolean value:
    - If set to `true`, browsers may prompt users to install one of the applications listed in [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) instead of your web app.
    - If set to `false` or omitted, browsers will prefer to install your web app over related native applications.
      > [!NOTE]
      > For Chromium-based browsers, `prefer_related_applications` should be set to `false` or omitted to make your web app installable.

## Examples

### Specifying preference for installing your web app

> Consider a scenario where you have both a web app and native apps for your product available on Google Play Store and Windows Store. If you want to offer related native apps as options but prefer users to install your web app, you can set it up in your manifest file as shown below. Browsers will prioritize your web for installation. The native apps will still be available as alternatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a scenario where you have both a web app and native apps for your product available on Google Play Store and Windows Store. If you want to offer related native apps as options but prefer users to install your web app, you can set it up in your manifest file as shown below. Browsers will promote your web app for installation. The native apps will still be available as alternatives.
```

Author: Thanks for fixing the typo

```json
{
  "prefer_related_applications": false,
  "related_applications": [
    {
      "platform": "play",
      "id": "com.example.hikingapp"
    },
    {
      "platform": "windows",
      "url": "https://apps.microsoft.com/store/hikingapp/9WZDNCRFHVJL"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Specifying preference for installing the related native app

> To encourage users to install your native Android hiking app from Google Play Store over your web app, you can indicate it in your web app's manifest file as shown below. Browsers on Android devices will prefer installing the native app instead of the web app.

Reviewer: Bit repetitive.
```suggestion
To encourage users to install your native Android hiking app from Google Play Store in preference to the web app, you can configure your web app's manifest file as shown below.
```

> {{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

Reviewer: At some point we should get a proper sidebar for this.

Author: Noted

Author: I already have this in my list of To Do's to get to as a follow up :)

> The `prefer_related_applications` manifest member is used to provide a hint to browsers about whether to prefer related native applications over your web application. It is typically used in conjunction with the [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) manifest member.

Reviewer: 1. Typically? What is the point of setting this without related_applications? What is the point of related_applications without this? It might not be mandatory, but we should still say "should" or "is used"
2. I think it is worth stating what preferred means here - i.e. a hint from your examples below about the use case.
3. Why would you ever specify related applications and not have this set true?

Author: Updated intro to be more direct (closer to what it was originally) to state that `prefer_related_applications` directly depends on `related_applications`:

> The `prefer_related_applications` manifest member is used to provide a hint to browsers whether to prefer native applications specified in the [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) manifest member over your web application.

I think that answers 1 and 2.

3. From the `related_applications` spec, it seems that browsers may still suggest native applications as options (that is, when `prefer_related_applications` is not set):

" Example of usages of the related_applications could be a crawler that would use that information to gather more information about the web application or a browser that could suggest a listed application as an alternative if the user wants to install the web application. "

But I'm not really sure about if in real world folks specify related apps as well as omit/set false  `prefer_related_applications`. So I haven't mentioned it on either page.

Author: Updated the examples on this page as well to make the prose more specific to the example scenario.
